docs/how-tos/consume-an-event.rst, before:

Consume an Open edX Event
=========================

You have two ways of consuming an Open edX event, within the same service or in a different service. In this guide, we will show you how to consume an event within the same service. For consuming events across services, see :doc:`../how-tos/use-the-event-bus-to-broadcast-and-consume-events`.

.. note:: We encourage you to also consider the practices outlined in the :doc:`../decisions/0016-event-design-practices` ADR for event consumption.

Throughout this guide, we will use an example of creating an event handler that will execute when a user enrolls in a course from the course about page to better illustrate the steps involved in creating a consumer for an event.

Setup
-----

To consume an event within the same service, follow these steps:

Step 1: Install Open edX Events
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, add the ``openedx-events`` plugin into your dependencies so the library's environment recognizes the event you want to consume. You can install ``openedx-events`` by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install openedx-events

This will mainly make the events available for your CI/CD pipeline and local development environment. If you are using the Open edX platform, the library should be already be installed in the environment so no need to install it.

Step 2: Create a Event Receiver and Connect it to the Event
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An :term:`Event Receiver` is simply a function that listens for a specific event and executes custom logic in response to the event being triggered. You can create an event receiver by using the Django signal receivers decorator. Here's an example of an event receiver that listens for the ``COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED`` event and creates a notification preference for the user:

.. code-block:: python

    from openedx_events import COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED
    from django.dispatch import receiver

    @receiver(COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED)
    def create_notification_preference(signal, sender, enrollment, metadata, **kwargs):
        # Custom logic to create a notification preference for the user
        pass

Now, the django dispatcher will call the ``create_notification_preference`` function when the ``COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED`` event is triggered. In this case, that would be every time a user enrolls in a course.

.. note:: Consider using asynchronous tasks to handle the event processing to avoid blocking the main thread and improve performance. Also, make sure to handle exceptions and errors gracefully to avoid silent failures and improve debugging. You should also consider not creating a tight coupling between receivers and other services, if doing so is necessary consider using the event bus to broadcast the event.

Step 5: Test the Event Receiver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Given the design of Open edX Events, you can include the events definitions in your test suite to ensure that the event receiver is working as expected. You can use the ``send_event`` method to trigger the event and test the event receiver. Here's an example of how you can test the event receiver:

.. code-block:: python

    from openedx_events import send_event, COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED

    def test_create_notification_preference():
        # Trigger the event
        COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED.connect(create_notification_preference)
        COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED.send_event(
            user=UserData(
                pii=UserPersonalData(
                    username='test_username',
                    email='test_email@example.com',
                    name='test_name',
                ),
                id=1,
                is_active=True,
            ),
        )

        # Assert that the notification preference was created
        assert NotificationPreference.objects.filter(user=enrollment.user).exists()

This way you can ensure that the event receiver is working as expected and that the custom logic is executed when the event is triggered. If the event definition or payload changes in any way, you can catch the error in the test suite instead of in production.

Commit message:

docs: add assumptions for how-tos

docs/how-tos/consume-an-event.rst, after:

Consume an Open edX Event
=========================

You have two ways of consuming an Open edX event, within the same service or in a different service. In this guide, we will show you how to consume an event within the same service. For consuming events across services, see :doc:`../how-tos/use-the-event-bus-to-broadcast-and-consume-events`.

.. note:: We encourage you to also consider the practices outlined in the :doc:`../decisions/0016-event-design-practices` ADR for event consumption.

Throughout this guide, we will use an example of creating an event handler that will execute when a user enrolls in a course from the course about page to better illustrate the steps involved in creating a consumer for an event.

Assumptions
-----------

- You have a development environment set up using `Tutor`_.
- You have a basic understanding of Python and Django.
- You have created a new Open edX event. If not, you can follow the :doc:`../how-tos/create-a-new-event` guide to create a new event.
- You have a basic understanding of Django signals. If not, you can review the `Django Signals Documentation`_.
- You are familiar with the terminology used in the project, such as the terms :term:`Event Type` or :term:`Event Receiver`. If not, you can review the :doc:`../reference/glossary` documentation.

Steps
-----

To consume an event within the same service, follow these steps:

Step 1: Install Open edX Events
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, add the ``openedx-events`` plugin into your dependencies so the library's environment recognizes the event you want to consume. You can install ``openedx-events`` by running:

.. code-block:: bash

   pip install openedx-events

This will mainly make the events available for your CI/CD pipeline and local development environment. If you are using the Open edX platform, the library should be already be installed in the environment so no need to install it.

Step 2: Create a Event Receiver and Connect it to the Event
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An :term:`Event Receiver` is simply a function that listens for a specific event and executes custom logic in response to the event being triggered. You can create an event receiver by using the Django signal receivers decorator. Here's an example of an event receiver that listens for the ``COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED`` event and creates a notification preference for the user:

.. code-block:: python

    from openedx_events import COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED
    from django.dispatch import receiver

    @receiver(COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED)
    def create_notification_preference(signal, sender, enrollment, metadata, **kwargs):
        # Custom logic to create a notification preference for the user
        pass

Now, the django dispatcher will call the ``create_notification_preference`` function when the ``COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED`` event is triggered. In this case, that would be every time a user enrolls in a course.

.. note:: Consider using asynchronous tasks to handle the event processing to avoid blocking the main thread and improve performance. Also, make sure to handle exceptions and errors gracefully to avoid silent failures and improve debugging. You should also consider not creating a tight coupling between receivers and other services, if doing so is necessary consider using the event bus to broadcast the event.

Step 3: Test the Event Receiver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Given the design of Open edX Events, you can include the events definitions in your test suite to ensure that the event receiver is working as expected. You can use the ``send_event`` method to trigger the event and test the event receiver. Here's an example of how you can test the event receiver:

.. code-block:: python

    from openedx_events import send_event, COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED

    def test_create_notification_preference():
        # Trigger the event
        COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED.connect(create_notification_preference)
        COURSE_ENROLLMENT_CREATED.send_event(
            user=UserData(
                pii=UserPersonalData(
                    username='test_username',
                    email='test_email@example.com',
                    name='test_name',
                ),
                id=1,
                is_active=True,
            ),
        )

        # Assert that the notification preference was created
        assert NotificationPreference.objects.filter(user=enrollment.user).exists()

This way you can ensure that the event receiver is working as expected and that the custom logic is executed when the event is triggered. If the event definition or payload changes in any way, you can catch the error in the test suite instead of in production.

.. _Tutor: https://docs.tutor.edly.io/
.. _Django Signals Documentation: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/signals/
